welcome back to movie reviews
today i will show you a sci-fi mystery
film from 2007 titled the mist
spoilers ahead
watch out and take care
the movie begins with david drayton the
main character hand painting a movie
poster for an upcoming film that night a
massive storm strikes bridget in maine
his house loses power and a tree smashes
through his studio window ruining his
latest painting the next morning david
and his eight-year-old son billy and
wife steph are cleaning up debris and
assessing damage from the storm
outside the family notices a thickness
approaching from off the nearby lake
in the storm the drayton family
boathouse has been crushed by a fallen
tree from their neighbor's house they go
to the neighbor brett norton who's a
lawyer to exchange insurance information
about the boathouse david notices that
brent's mercedes convertible has been
smashed by a falling tree brenn asks
david if he will be driving into town to
pick up food and supplies and if he
could get a ride seeing as the storm
claimed his car david says yes and david
billy and brent drive to town in david's
suv for the grocery store while driving
to the supermarket they've used several
electric company trucks heading in the
other direction and oddly several dozen
military vehicles heading to the
military base
upon arriving at the supermarket they
find the store to be packed with people
also stocking up on supplies
three military men in the store are on
leave the soldiers are approached by a
military policeman to return to base and
they their leave has been suspended and
they have 30 minutes to finish shopping
later a man named jeff miller flies into
the market bloodied and frantic the man
immediately begins screaming about
something hidden in the mist that is
attacking and killing people everyone
looks outside and the mist is now
completely surrounded the grocery store
and nothing can be seen outside of the
store but white smoke
however there is a lady who worries that
she's left her two young children on
their own at home
she wants to leave the supermarket to go
home to check on them and asks everybody
to volunteer to accompany her nobody
volunteers so she leaves the supermarket
on her own
david meanwhile realizes already that
they will be spending the next several
hours if not days in the store and goes
to the back of the store to check the
generator
in the back room of the store where the
generator is the loading dock he hears
something outside of the large loading
dock door
eventually the creature starts pressing
heavily into the door and he runs back
into the main store
he tells three men what he heard through
the door and they don't believe him
david also tells him that the generator
is smoking and might not work for that
much long if it is not fixed
the five of them go back to the loading
dock in the back of the store to fix the
generator
they conclude that the generator's
exhaust system is clogged outside and
that someone must physically remove
what's unclogging the generator
a young bag boy of the grocery store
norm volunteers to go outside david
warns and pleads for no one to go
outside
norm and the other man ignore the
warnings and open the large loading dock
garage door
upon opening the door the mist has
become incredibly thick and begins
slowly entering the loading dock before
anyone can react a large tentacle snags
norm's leg and pulls him under the door
he grabs the door and david pulls him
back into the loading dock
unfortunately several more tentacles
follow norm back into the loading dock
and begin ripping flesh from his body
bloodied and terrified norm is dragged
outside into the mist david quickly
grabs an axe and manages to chop off the
end of one of the tentacles the men are
in shock and go back into the grocery to
tell brent what they've discovered and
to ask him if he has any idea what to do
brent however lashes out at them
believing they are playing a joke on him
by saying that monsters are dwelling in
the mist brent believes that some of the
townspeople are setting him up for a
prank and that no monsters exist
brent says that he knows it's just a
storm and that trying to joke about
monsters is not going to work on him he
says that the men are trying to prank
him because he was the lawyer who
represented people who sued this grocery
store and lost
david and the men though show brent and
several others the piece of tentacle
that david had severed from the monster
bren has already made up his mind though
and he says that it proves nothing and
that the mist is nothing more than part
of a storm
brenn organizes a group of people to
leave the store to drive and find help
reassuring them that nothing is going to
happen if they leave the store into the
mist one man says that when brent and
his group leave he will go to the
parking lot and retrieve a shotgun from
another man's car who is too afraid to
retrieve the gun himself and he will
bring the gun back into the store
david asks the man to tie a 300-foot
rope around his waist so that the people
in the store will know that he made it
at least as far as the rope goes brent
and his group leave first
the man with the rope leaves right
behind them
after a minute of silence waiting for
the man to come back with a shotgun his
rope begins pulling rapidly out of the
store
david and several others try to hang on
but suffer rope burn
finally the rope stops pulling in david
and the other pull on the rope
eventually the rope starts coming back
into the store red covered in fresh
dripping blood and everyone in the store
begins crying and screaming
the lower severed half of the man's body
is still attached to the end of the rope
they decide not to pull the torso in and
let it rest in front of the store the
remaining people assume that brent and
his group have also died and they
realize the only way to survive is
barricade everything in front of the
storefront
one of the store supervisors observes
the entire front of the store's large
glass windows then two feet long insects
begin landing on the windows of the
store's front the insects though are not
the problem it's the giant six feet
pterodactyl-like predator birds that are
now crashing into the windows that are
alarming the birds are killing the
insects but whenever a bird crashes into
an insect resting on a window the
windows crack further eventually a bird
shatters a window cleanly allowing
several insects to fly through the
window the insects attack and kill only
a young girl who is a worker of the
grocery store and also a love interest
of one of the military personnel private
jessup the people use shovels rakes and
sticks to beat and kill the insects but
two large bird creatures also enter the
store
the first bird kills a man immediately
upon entering the store and is in turn
killed by being set on fire the other
bird is shot by ali who wields a
six-shooter pistol the fire used to kill
the bird though also severely burns a
man he is burned so badly that he says
that the pain is unbearable and begs to
be killed so and is suffering david and
those watching the burn victim tell him
to hang on a little longer david and his
group set out to outside go to a nearby
pharmacy in the shopping plaza to
retrieve burn medicine antibiotics and
painkillers for the burn victim on the
mission they encounter the military
policemen who ordered the three military
soldiers on leave to return to duty the
mp has been strung up in a spider's web
and has large pulsing sores covering his
body
coughing and stuttering he says that
everything is our fault and that the
military is responsible the sores on his
body then open up to reveal lift spiders
growing inside of them david and his
group see the source of the smaller
spiders several large three feet long
spiders and begin to retreat back to the
grocery store in the retreat they lose
two people to the spiders
the large spiders have claws and fangs
but also shoot acidic webbing one man
dies from the webbing burning through
his jeans and flesh eventually bleeding
to death
the other victim is surrounded and
attacked by spiders and killed
david and his group make it back to the
store ask the soldier who came with them
on the mission what the mp meant by it
being the military's fault the soldier
says his two other soldiers who are in
the store can explain it better but the
group discovers that the two other
soldiers have committed suicide by
hanging themselves in the loading docks
the remaining soldier says that all he
knows was that scientists had found a
way to open up doorways to other worlds
and dimensions and they called it
project arrowhead this is all revealed
to the remaining survivors in the store
ms carmody says that the doorway was
hell and that now we are paying for the
soldiers mistakes she demands that the
remaining soldier be sacrificed for his
sins for bringing these monster here she
says that god demands his blood the
soldier pleads that he was just a lowly
solider and the scientists were the ones
who did all of the experimenting ms
carmody exclaims that we have tampered
with god's power we have split god's
atoms used god stem cells and allowed
abortions and now those responsible must
suffer
one of the men who has sided with her
lunges and stabs the soldier three times
in the stomach to david in his group's
horror the soldier is tossed through the
front door to the outside
bleeding and alive he begs to be let
back inside
a gigantic monster approaches the store
and grabs the soldier and kills him the
monster leaves and miss carmody says
that the monster has been appeased
tonight but more people must be offered
up eventually david assembles several
people to accompany him because he
intends to break out of the store and
see if he can drive through the mist and
find a place where the mist is not there
david his son ollie and six others agree
that in a couple nights they will leave
after stockpiling food and supplies
under the radar of ms carmody and her
group the night of the departure ms
carmody catches them before they can
leave and assembles everyone else in the
store to prevent them from leaving david
tells her to move but she counters by
saying that not only can david not leave
the store but that david's son billy
must be the next sacrifice
david and ali are approached by several
men armed with knives ali doesn't
hesitate though and opens fire on miss
carmody with his pistol he shoots her in
the stomach stunning her followers and
then he executes her with a bullet to
the forehead completely horrifying them
and causing them and back off
ali points the gun at the knife wielding
men causing them to retreat and motions
for david and the group to make a break
for it david and the group get outside
and run for david's suv
one of the men falls and is helped by
two other men
two of them are attacked and killed by
spiders and the other runs back to the
market and is welcomed inside ali
reaches the suv first but is killed by
the giant creature that killed the
soldier from before david his son billy
a woman the original man who warned of
the creatures in the mist and an older
woman eventually make it into the suv
david before driving away sees the gun
that ollie dropped and grabs it off the
hood of his car while a giant spider
climbs on the car david starts the car
and drives by the front of the store
while the survivors that followed ms
carmody who have now snapped back to
reality and realize what they had done
watch him drive by david his son and the
three others drive through the mist for
hours looking for help or a sign of
clear until the suv runs out of gas on
the ride they first stop at david's
house where he sees his wife's dead body
in a spider's web on the main roads they
see tons of cars that have been
overturned a school bus full of webbed
children and tons of debris and roadside
damage while driving they also encounter
the largest creature in the film a
massive six-legged monster covered in
thousands of smaller creatures and
tentacles that is the size of several
large buildings and is so high that only
its legs can be seen as its head is well
above the trees with the suv out of gas
they pull over
they have not been able to drive out of
the mist with billy asleep david pulls
out the gun and nods with silent
agreement with the other members of the
group
david says that there are only four
bullets not enough to kill all of them
and david will stay alive and let the
creatures kill him saying that he will
figure something out he has shot and
killed his eight-year-old son and the
three other survivors and is now waiting
for his own death
a large rumbling noise emerges in the
distance something is approaching david
screaming and begging to die a monster
does not reveal itself in the mist
instead it is a u.s military tank
in fact it is a full military battalion
tanks soldiers with flame throwers and
rifles and truckloads of survivors are
now traveling on the road
some of the survivors are from the
grocery store and one of them is the one
woman who left by herself who is
completely unscathed and has her two
children with her realizing that he just
murdered his son and three innocent
people only moments before they would
have been rescued and that they should
have never left the market in the first
place david collapses and two soldiers
approach him unaware of what david has
just done make sure to subscribe and
turn on notifications so you can watch
more videos like this
thanks for watching